In this let us learn ABOUT OPERATORS and also expression just to get the basic idea.
Then in the next video we will use them in the programs.
So let us understand what are operators.
Operators are predefined in C++ programming.
They are useful for performing some operations and there are symbols used for operators like in mathematics
a plus is the symbol used for adding two no. same way
Here symbols are there and every symbol is having some operation associated with that.
So let us look at some of the operators I have written here.
See first of all are arithmetic operators arithmetic operators are addition subtraction multiplication
division and the module.
These are the operators I'm going to discuss them right now.
Then the other operators that is relational operators these are useful for comparing numbers, comparing
values.
So these operators are less than, less than equal to, greater than, greater than equal to, equal to and not equal
to.
So these operators will learn afterwards. so next logical.
Now I don't know whether you have the idea about this one or not but I will go at it as a very new and
fresh topic for you.
So later on we will learn about AND, OR, NOT logical operations and this Bitwise operations
are also similar but they have a big difference compared to these two.
These are also AND, OR, NOT & XOR.
So we learn we have a separate video on this. then increment decrement operator.
These are more powerful and more commonly use operations in C++ programming.
Next this assignment, we have used this one right for storing the value, and there are many other operations so
we will learn them as we go on covering the new topics over the course move on.
We will learn about more operators.
So right now in this video we will learn about arithmetic operations and also we will learn how to form
expressions.
So let us get the idea about this. let us take the operation see addition subtraction multiplication.
this is star.
It is also called us astrik.
This is called as astrik, students call it as star but
This is astrik.
addition, subtraction,
This is used as multiplication and then this is a division.
And this is percentile symbol and this is mod this we call it s mod in C++.
Let us understand how they work.
see They are meant for performing operation on data for first of all you should have data where do you
keep data in your program.
In the variables.
So let me take some variables.
I'm not writing a complete program just I'm showing you here.
I have two variables a b as will as I will take C now a is having value 10 and the b is having value of
5.
Now let us perform those operations so first one.
If I say C assign a plus b then the value of a and b are added and the result is is stored here.
So the system plus 5 and the result is 15.
That is a stored in this form.
This is how it works very well do you use it in your program.
So we'll be using it afterwards.
Now instead of this one first one.
If I use this C assign a minus B then this is 10 minus five and the result of this one is 5.
That is stored here.
Then let us look at next.
That is multiplication. third one,
If I write like this C assign a multiplied by B then this is 10*5 i.e 50.
That is the 50 that is stored in this one.
Now other 2 we have to see.
These are important right.
There is a divide and mod.
So let us look at this.
So here I will show you first one that is a divide so ask but this order is the fourth one.
So if I say a divided by b and the result is in C so what does it mean.
Let us look at this see here.
It is divided by B values how much 10 and the B values how much.
5.
So this gets divided this 5 will divide this 10 for 2 times 5 two's 10.
Right.
And this is Zero.
So let us look at these things.
Let us learn this.
This is a dividend.
This is divisor.
And this is quotient.
And what ever is remaining after dividing is a remainder dividend and be divisor.
So this is important for us.
This is quotient.
This is a reminder this is quotient and this reminder.
So when i use a divide.
What I get if I use a divide I get the result that is quotient  10 divided by 5 quotient is
two this is two if suppose.
This is not a ten I will change it now instead of ten.
If a is thirteen then what.
So let us see it by removing this one.
I will show it here.
See here I have a is 13 and B is a five.
These are integers.
Then if I c assign a divided by B then what happens is a 13, 13 divided by five and
this gets divided by two dimes and that is ten and this is remainder.
So what is quotient? quotient is two, and the remainder is a 3.
Right.
So this gives what? quotient. division gives quotient.
So what will be the result 13 divided by 5 is two it is not two but  two point six.
So that is the decimal.
It is a floating point.
But what is the data type.
We have taken.
We have taken integer so it will be integer only.
So this is the one important thing that we should know if you're performing division on integers.
Then the result is also integer.
Even though if you're getting the floating point than it will not be showing it.
how to get floating point result,
I will show you afterwards.
Now next thing we will see how to use mod, see here instead of this next statement I
will write C assign a mod B.
So what is mod? the remainder.
What is that.
3. So when 13 is mod by 5.
So after division that remainder is 3.
So this gives the remainder 3.
That's it.
So the more operation gifts remained of two numbers.
So there's a difference if you should remember it clearly that divide gets quotient.
This quotient and the mod gives.
remainder. it's sometimes confusing for the students to understand this but this is very easy.
So you should know clearly what is quotient and what is a reminder that you can easily remember this
now I will show you if you want a float result than what you should do.
i will remove this and i will show you.
Now let us see how to get the floating point result if two integers are divided see already we have seen
you want to divide a and b as a and b are both integer types so 13 divided by 5.
This gives the result as a 2 Actual.
Division gives the result at two point six.
That is float.
So we want the result in float.
But these two are integers we won't get it but we have to typecast it to get off float.
So what is type casting.
So we can change the data type of this result.
This is true if you write about it we want it to be a float.
So the actual result.
What do we get.
That's two point six that two point six will be given to us and the variable we take.
This should be float.
So I have taken c that is float type here. now this integer division gifts floating point result.
So this is called us type casting type casting means changing our data type here.
The result would be integer but we are converting into float at the time of division only at that time
only like because the result what we are getting it just two point six I imagine it is truncated and
it is giving us 2 but  we want to point six only so right typecasting here you get
the actual result that is two point six.
So the type casting.
So this how we can get the float result from integer division.
Now next here I have one more example I have three variables all out are float only, now if I want to divide
a by B then the result will be floating point result only, and the
result I will take it in variable C so I don't have to worry about type casting anything because a and
b are off type float so the result will be float.
So from this we can understand that if we have integers and you perform any arithmetic operation on integer
we get the result in integer.
If it is a float then we get the result in float.
Similarly if you have any other data type then you would get the same data type.
Now next I will show one more thing.
We have seen the mod operator which gives the remainder when the two no. are divided.
So in this case a mod B when a is divided by B the remainder will be 3.
So this gives the remainder that is 3.
Right.
So this mod operation can be performed over integers. can I do a mod b here and store the result
in some variable.
No we cannot perform mod operation on float no. this you must know. then I have one more data type
here that is character type.
Suppose I wanted to perform a mod b and store them the result in c. is it allowed on characters?
Yes it is allowed.
So mod is allowed only on integers and characters.
Here you may get confused that how come I am storing numbers in character so if you remember we have
learned in the data types that characters are nothing but the numbers.
These are codes.
So every character is having a ASCII code so actually a character is integral type only so it store
to the codes of the character.
So if you're not storing any character directly you can assign a code also or else if I right a  here
then this is nothing but 65.
It's a numeric value 65.
So then you perform mod mod operations perform on their numeric values that is integral values.
So that's all. mod operation is allowed on these two.
So in this video we have learned about the operators.
I have explained to the working of the operators. now in the
Next video I will show you how to write expression and what does it mean by precedence.
Then after that we will write some programs using operators.